in 2007 Congress enacted legislation
that allowed VA to fund limited
programming to support caregivers of
veterans from these pilot projects it
became clear that supporting caregivers
actually helps veterans as well so from
that came a much larger piece of
legislation which has allowed VA to
provide unprecedented benefits directly
to these caregivers
I'm at a local retirement it disease
how's everyone doing everything's doing
good I was riding in the backseat of a
Humvee we ran over an AED I was ejected
from the vehicle and I was instantly
paralyzed when Josh returned to us
injured it was definitely life-changing
not only for me but for my entire family
no one is ever prepared to or expects
something like this is going to happen
to them the Elizabeth Dole foundation
funded the RAND Corporation to do a
large study on military caregivers and
its findings are impressive they
estimate 5.5 million caregivers of
veterans and 1.1 million of those are
taking care of post 9/11 veterans it's
so important for VA to develop
programming and provide supports and
services to caregivers of veterans for
the specific family caregiver program
the initial eligibility is that you have
to have been released orner a fter
September 11 2001 and have a
service-connected related injury or
illness that happen in the line of duty
and after that we had to determine if
you're clinically eligible and what
we're looking for is the kinds of needs
the veteran has in the home miss hymen
how are things going with you
how's your stress level been I can share
many different stories about caregivers
who were so thrilled the first time a
nurse came out to their home to do a
home visit and couldn't believe that the
nurse was asking them how they were
doing and how they felt and how they
were being impacted by what was going on
caregiver support coordinators hear from
caregivers about how much the program
has changed their lives
the service that I am most blessed with
is the caregivers stipend that has
enabled me to continue to support and
contribute to the family financially
because there's no way that I could have
a job outside of my full-time caregiving
responsibilities another thing that the
stipend does is I feel like it validates
me it validates my job the importance of
what I do one of the biggest issues that
I hear is the need for respite care for
the for the caregiver the stress that
they incur while having to take care of
a loved one can be pretty daunting and
it's constant and they need some kind of
break for someone to come in and help
them take care of the veteran while they
step away from the situation temporarily
we imagined that that support line would
exist for maybe a year or so and we
imagined that most of the questions
would be about this stipend program for
those who are caring for post 9-11
veterans most of the caregivers who call
are caring for veterans of the korean
era of the vietnam era the world war ii
era we have just celebrated the third
anniversary of the caregiver support
line and the support line has received
more than 125,000 calls the oef/oif O&D
era veteran these veterans are very very
young and they have come back with a
complexity of injuries and illnesses I
think it's important that veterans are
taken care of in their own home from a
psychological standpoint instead of
going to a nursing home they can receive
their care from someone that they love
and that they trust my first initial
rollout was 19 caregivers were
identified initially in May of 2011 and
I'm up to 176 caregivers and still Kyle
County I know over the nation I think we
probably tripled the expectation at this
point so we have not we haven't looked
back and we are just blazing ahead at
lightning speed with this program
they've been very excited that military
caregiving has been a focus of joining
forces for Michelle Obama
dr. Jill Biden it's really I think
raised the profile and allowed us to put
more focus and attention on caregivers
of veterans family members are going to
be careful ins for a long time we've
seen that evidence by previous eras we
believe when we take care of the family
members who care for our veterans our
veterans do better
I really have to spend a lot of time and
energy devoted to daily care that I once
took for granted and it's so awesome
that the VA is providing for me to be
back in my home and to have the best
people who love me unconditionally take
care of me no one can take better care
of him than I can and it's my privilege
and my honor to care for him and well